Sohum Tambe
Professor Davila
English 1302 : 265
24 January 2024
Bolstered Heterosexual Norms in The Boys in the Band
Throughout the Boys In The Band, the party host and main character Michael is emotionally turbulent and is discomforted by other’s homosexual love for each other. Leading to Michael internally discriminating against homosexuals and as Timothy Scheie argues in “Acting Gay in the Age of Queer: Pondering the Revival of The Boys in the Band” that the characters in the boys in the band, especially the main character Michael “offer[s] no representational position for gay men or lesbians” (Scheie 3). Therefore through this lack of representation provided to gay men and lesbians, the characterization of the main character, Michael in the movie The Boys in the Band the movie is reaffirming heterosexual norms. 		
In the beginning of the movie, Michael’s eccentric and material lifestyle allows the furthering of heterosexual norms in society. As Michael and Donald get ready for the birthday party, Michael casually puts on a vicuña sweater and immediately throws it on the floor, as he didn't like how it looked. When asked about this by Donald, Michael says that anyone can get a better job that pays more and refers to how even his house isn't paid off (Friedkin 10:50-11:18). Michael is extremely materialistic and really eccentric with his vicuña and cashmere sweaters when they and the other things in Michael's life are not even being paid off like his apartment in New York City. With Michael’s dismissive attitude towards these allegations, Michael displays how he simply does not care about money and takes it for granted, leading him to go out and buy excessively expensive items like the sweaters without them even being paid off. Michael’s lifestyle displays that he is excessive and irresponsible with money and his own life. Michael’s lifestyle is a representation of the entirety of the entire gay community due to him being a gay figure. Therefore Michael’s lifestyle leads to a furthuring of heterosexual norms in society. 
Towards the climax of the movie, Michael’s homophobia and internal heterosexual norms are seen through his discomfort and silence when seeing two gay men happy. In the midst of Michael’s telephone love admittance game in which the party members were to call someone and confess their love to them, Larry and Hank get into a dispute about their relationship and they end up resolving when they admit their love for each other. After this admittance, Bernard says that they should get points for their admittance to which Michael snaps and exclaims “They didn’t use the goddamn telephone, they don’t get a goddamn thing!” (Friedkin 01:35:45-01:36:23). By yelling at Bernard after he says that Larry and Hank should get points for their admission and reevaluation of love for each other. Michael displays his discomfort and how offputted he is by this admission of love by them. Rather than being supportive and genuinely happy about their love, Michael, through his child-like response to this, and his refusal of points to Larry and Hank despite them having greater success than many of his other friends illustrates his hatred of Larry and Hank’s relationship. Underscoring how Michael does not want to see two gay individuals happy. After hearing Michael’s yell Larry decides to call Hank and proclaim his love to Hank through the telephone in order to get points. During this Michael sits quietly on the couch and sweats profusely whilst doing so, while Bernard counts the points for them (Friedkin 01:36:23-01:37:17 ). Michael’s complete and total silence and his sweat during this moment displays his complete and total discomfort at seeing two men in a relationship who are happy and acknowledging their love for each other publicly. He does not want to see Larry and Hank together as it brings him great discomfort, hence the silence and the sweat. This allows him to further heterosexual norms by simply not acknowledging his friends' love admittance and awarding them points for it, despite Larry and Hank using the telephone. This discomfort and hatred highlights how Michael is furthering heterosexual norms.
Through the characterization of Michael in the movie The Boys in the Band the movie is attempting to further heterosexual norms despite being a gay film. Michael is depicted in the movie as an affluent, selfish, easily discomforted by homosexual love. All traits that lead to the furthering of heterosexual norms in society. 


Department of State Position Paper
Introduction:
Over time, with the increasing threat of hackers and foreign adversaries, encryption has been the go-to solution to preventing hackers and attacks on companies. Encryption doesn't simply just protect against hackers. It also prevents law authorities from decrypting this data, making it so that criminals can go undetected due to this encryption, leading law enforcement to advocate for backdoor systems to bypass encryption systems in companies. Being faced with this nuanced issue, The Department of State leans toward the side of encryption whilst remaining neutral over backdoors because of its security and privacy implications. 
Side of Encryption:
	First of all, one of the main points of contention is the threats to public safety that backdoors might result in. Although many law enforcement agencies have argued that backdoors would allow for court searches to better investigate threats to public security, encryption advocates state that it is unfeasible to build a “strong encryption system with a backdoor that only law enforcement can use” (Kaptchuk). Firstly, not only will law enforcement be able to access private company data, but any adversaries or international threats will also be able to exploit these backdoors and gain access to critical domestic data. Secondly, there are too many ways for this vulnerability to be exposed even if access is minimized by giving a “master key” to only the trusted agencies (Kaptchuk). Government officials could still leak the keys that use these backdoors to foreign forces. As a result, although law enforcement presses the benefits to public security that backdoors could provide, some numerous implications and vulnerabilities implementing backdoors would cause the nation.
Furthermore, encryption advocates state that the loss of encryption would inevitably lead to citizens’ rights violations by the government as “government hacking interferes with human rights… including rights to privacy, free expression, and due process” (Access Now 5).  Leading to grave danger and loss of legitimacy to the State Department. This additionally leads to unrest and distrust throughout the nation due to the people not knowing what the government is seeing and what it isn't seeing. This inevitably led to the loss of freedom and democracy within the country—the very facets the Department of State was built to protect. Due to this, Residents and Citizens of the nation may want to revolt against the government, leading to more instability and chaos within the state. 
Thirdly, if we were to implement backdoors, it would compromise the human rights and protection of U.S. civil society groups located internationally. One of the most essential requirements for these various groups to run smoothly is reliable and secure encryption. Because they work in dangerous places to plan, document, and work on and promote intense civil rights topics, they require encryption. If a backdoor was enforced, it would put these U.S. groups at high risk of a data leak to the local law enforcement, and as a result, put all their lives and years of work at risk. As such, the Department of State feels it is too large of a risk to implement backdoors.
Side of Backdoors:
Many of America’s Allies like the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland as well as the Commonwealth of Australia have implemented backdoor policies already. As the Department of State, our goal is to cooperate with our allies. With both the UK and Australia implementing backdoor policies and both countries being longtime close allies, it makes sense to have our policies and governments being similar to them. Furthermore, because many foreign countries (both allies and rivals) have implemented backdoor policies, many have voiced the urge to implement backdoors as well to compete in the international field. We as the Department of State would be interested in this way to advocate for The Republic of the United States to implement a backdoor policy as long as and only if there was a definite way to minimize the current threats and vulnerabilities to national security that implementing backdoors would create. 
Moreover, many advocates for backdoors say that without backdoors many criminals and adversaries may be able to “go dark and can commit nefarious crimes” (Jain). Leading these adversaries to get away from the criminal justice system and escape the government's watchful eye. These sorts of adversaries are directly against the Department’s visions for human rights and democracy and would lead the department to want to side on the side of backdoors. However, if we were to implement backdoors, it’s not guaranteed that we would be able to catch these criminals, especially in the international field. We may not be able to do anything and instead implement a built-in vulnerability to U.S. data that foreign entities can exploit.
Department of State’s Conclusion:
The Department of State is focused on preserving and expanding democracy and freedom worldwide, and as an initial overview of the issue, the department fully supports end-to-end encryption. However, the department realizes that supporting end-to-end encryption could lead to harm in terms of national security by making it so that many attackers “go dark and can commit nefarious crimes” (Jain). Making it so that encryption systems could be used to increase instability and chaos in the nation. This sort of thing would undermine the democratic process and would go against the department's goals and visions. However, the department is aware of the fact that even without encryption, government access to users' data at their whim, known as government hacking, can also lead to immense distrust in the government and can easily be exploited by corrupt actors. With all of this in account, the department reaffirms our neutrality on this issue, yet the department has left the door open to change our position. 

As I stand on by a railroad crossing near my home I get ready with my camera to take hundreds of pictures of the Heritage Conrail locomotive as it crosses the road as it barrels towards the city limits of Austin. Around me there are around 10 other people excitedly anticipating the train's arrival. And then I heard a train horn off in the distance, signaling to us foamers(Train nerds) that the train was near. As the train approached the crossing people started taking pictures of it like crazy. The train’s beautiful, blue livery with the Conrail Logo glistened in the sunlight. Then the train started coming to a halt on the railroad crossing. All of the foamers there were just so incredibly happy that they would be able to take more pictures of this old train. Then an engineer hopped down from the locomotive looking old and tired, visibly sweating due to the lack of an air conditioner in the decades old train. He looked at the small group of people for a second before walking down the track to manually change a switch. While, the other foamers were happily taking pictures of the Conrail Locomotive. I was watching the engineer who was now flagging the train operator that the switch had been set in place. This engineer looked like they had worked for hours without even the smallest of breaks. 
Which reminded me of what was taken away from us. This engineer had been working for hours that day and years of their life at this company that has just been exploiting them for their labor. 
The engineer has broken their back daily simply for the benefit of the owner of Norfolk Southern or Union Pacific or BNSF or CSX. All of these companies have just deprived their workers of their wellbeing simply to make more money. Conrail was taken away from everyone when it was bought by Norfolk Southern and CSX. It is the sheer greed of large corporations like this that leads to horrendous working conditions for laborers. Corporations have been dead set on taking away their laborers basic rights and privileges in life just so that they can get more profits.
 Humans deserve their humanity, Humans deserve their humanity. The main facet of humanity—freedom has been taken away from everyday people by the leaders of companies.
The engineer who was working on the train has had their freedoms taken away, their basic rights and instead of freedom, they have had to work for hours and hours on end, every day. 
This class-consciousness between the workers and corporations is something that many people possess. But what can possibly be done about it? The potential for a brighter future seems bleak with these huge oppressive monolithic structures impeding the view around. The duopoly of the freight train industry seems indestructible. People seem to be dying at a faster rate every day, whether it is in Palestine or mica miners in India the world seems to be imploding on itself. 
Nihilists running around telling us that nothing really matters are wrong. To the engineer of the train, everything matters. Their own material conditions matter, having class-consciousness matters, their well being matters. Everything matters to workers. Workers depend on camaraderie with their fellow proletariat. It is only with this camaraderie that our freedoms will be recognised and instilled into society. 


“YIMBYs vs NIMBYs Ideology on Affordable Housing Development”
INTRODUCTION:
As my dad drove our car towards downtown Chicago from West Chicago I heard the sound of the wind blowing around the car as we sped down IH-90. I loved seeing the buildings below us in West Chicago barrel by. As we traveled I heard the many Metra commuter trains with their clicks and clacks against parallel steel rails, exactly 1,435 mm apart from each traveling on underpasses under the highways, going at 60 miles an hour. I loved hearing the faint bird chirps and ‘L’ metro passing in the highway median with more clicks and clacks against the third rail electrified tracks in the median of the highway. That particular day we were going to the loop in downtown Chicago from our apartment in far west Chicago. As I watched the beautiful skyline approaching with Lake Michigan in the background I was filled with excitement. I hadn't been to downtown Chicago in months and I, being a second grader, had forgotten what it was like. As our car got on to the off ramp of the highway and parked in the underground parking garage of Union Station, we walked on to the bustling streets of the third biggest city in America, my elation morphed into sorrow. The streets of downtown Chicago were filled with tents and people asking for money, just so that they could get their next meal. Downtown Chicago, while beautiful and incredible, has way too many homeless people. This was incredibly saddening to me as a second grader and still is to me now.
    I wish that the third largest city in America would do the bare minimum to provide everyone with basic necessities that they need like shelter and water and food. People should not have to live on the streets ever.
    And this leads me to wonder how exactly we should go about getting people into houses. Affordable housing is something that is a necessity to get everyone housed. But we don't have enough of it to house everyone.
    There are many opposing viewpoints on building more affordable housing however the two most prevalent ones are YIMBYs(Yes In My Backyard) which believe that cities and local governments should “build as much housing as possible as fast as possible and as inexpensively as possible, which in theory would begin to turn the tide of the housing crisis” (Mouzon). Whereas NIMBYs(Not In My Backyard) who utilize “the boards and commissions” in order to control “density, use-based zoning” (Mouzon). While YIMBYs ideology stands out to many as being able to create more affordable housing, can YIMBY ideology, in reality, lead to more affordable housing being built in cities and therefore lead to the end of homelessness within cities.
One Perspective: YIMBY:
Flexible inclusionary zoning, a fundamental part of YIMBY ideals, has been, according to YIMBYs ideology, largely successful in creating affordable housing for low income individuals. Inclusionary zoning programs in essence “require developers to provide affordable housing in exchange for developing market-rate homes in the jurisdiction” (Arias 80).  A study on the effectiveness of flexible inclusionary zoning concluded that “On average, these programs provide more affordable housing units than voluntary programs” (Arias 101). Through inclusionary zoning policies, housing developers are mandated to build affordable housing. Which, YIMBYs claim are the solution to the lack of affordable housing within cities. To YIMBYism the adoption of inclusionary zoning in many large cities has led to successes in building affordable housing. The installment of inclusionary zoning policies in cities has also been incredibly beneficial to developers as developers are free to build wherever they want and set the type of housing built, the income targets and the rent restrictions (Arias 102). Through this, YIMBYs believe that developers can work towards their own interests rather than following the mandates which the government has set in place. Inclusionary zoning allows developers to focus on the feasibility of their own projects instead of the government's bureaucratic processes that take time and generally lower the amount of affordable housing in a community. Through flexible inclusionary zoning, developers are oftentimes given incentives to build more affordable housing through density bonus programs. Density bonus programs allow for taller buildings with more housing units to be built in an area (Arias 108). YIMBYS through their fundamental principle of flexible inclusionary zoning have allowed developers to be free from the government and through this have allowed for the development of more affordable housing within cities with inclusionary zoning policies. Through these policies, YIMBYs believe that they have been able to allow, approve, and develop more affordable housing than their NIMBY counterparts.
YIMBYs also believe that a supply and demand approach to housing is key in order to control housing prices and build more affordable housing. YIMBYs solution to the lack of affordable housing is  an “increase in housing supply will result in lower housing prices and, subsequently, more affordable housing units” (Lowe and Richards 301). YIMBYs view the lack of low income housing as a result of the low  availability of housing in cities. YIMBYs believe that within a market-based housing system a lack of supply in housing, coupled with consistent demand for housing will lead to higher costs for housing over time, even for affordable housing units. Through YIMBYs belief in the market's self-balancing system of supply and demand, YIMBYs argue that through their own system, more affordable housing will be built.
One Perspective: NIMBY:
Local control, when the city has control over its own zoning and land use codes, is an important principle to NIMBYs. NIMBYs believe that “the regulation of land use is one of the few remaining tools available to cities to pursue meaningful redistribution” (Schragger 190). Redistribution of land is a key factor in allowing for the increased development of affordable housing in communities. Without equitable redistribution policies within a community, NIMBYs argue that affordable housing would be a second thought to developers, leading to lower amounts of affordable housing being manufactured. NIMBYs state that cities controlling the ability to control the redistribution and allocation of land allows cities to pick and choose where affordable housing is built and where it should not be built, leading to cities being able to prioritize affordable housing when necessary as well as prioritize market-rate housing when needed. Additionally NIMBY's ideology allows for community benefit agreements (CBA) which are “negotiated deals with developers seeking land use approvals; community support is often a necessary precondition for such approvals” (Shragger 191). CBAs allow the city to negotiate deals with developers according to the communities' needs. NIMBYs argue that CBAs empower people into being able to advocate for the types of housing that they want democratically and freely and therefore leads to people living within the community to be thought about during the development process.  Locally controlled housing, through its ability to redistribute land and its ability to negotiate CBAs with developers, NIMBYs believe is the solution towards creating more affordable housing for lower income individuals and therefore, according to NIMBYS, a solution to the vast housing crisis present within many cities throughout the country.
The abolishment of the zoning code, and creation of inclusionary zoning programs within cities, one of the most fundamental principles of YIMBYism, according to NIMBYs, is not a viable option for attempting to enact affordable housing because it has not led to a real increase in affordable housing built. NIMBYs argue that through abolishment of zoning code and creation of inclusionary zoning programs have led to “affordable housing regulations [being] even more difficult to adopt” due to the inclusionary zoning creating “the push to build more and faster will only further undercut those efforts”  (Schragger 159-160). There is no profit motive for developers to work on building homes for low income individuals under inclusionary zoning. Rather, NIMBYs say that abolishing zoning greatly benefits developers who are in the business of developing in order to create profits greatly increase profits, additionally, NIMBYS argue that there will not be any way for cities or governments to set minimum affordable housing laws under inclusionary zoning, therefore making it so that developers are not taking people who need affordable housing the most as a priority. While YIMBYS argue that land use deregulation and inclusionary zoning policies “will lead to the construction of more housing, which will lower prices for all housing consumers” (Schragger 162). NIMBYs argue that when Mount Laurel, a town which initially had  NIMBY policies, eliminated its ban on building multi-family homes the easement of the restrictions was not able to "provide housing to the township’s low-income, minority residents" (Schragger 162). This statistic reflects how NIMBYS do not believe that YIMBY policies have made any real substantial effect on affordable housing amounts and rather believe that affordable housing cannot be solved with inclusionary zoning policies.
Conclusion:
In reality, NIMBYs with their community based agreements(CBA) are able to foster a more democratic development approval process with their precondition of community support (Shragger 191). CBAs allow for often underrepresented communities within cities, which are often low income individuals, to advocate for themselves and their own needs within a development plan. Through CBAs individuals are empowered to fight against development companies as well as other corporations to advocate for affordable housing.
YIMBYs believe in a more free market approach with little to no restrictions to planning and zoning. YIMBYs believe that through this free zoning policy more housing will be built in general leading to“[reduced] housing costs for low-income households and, consequently, helps to mitigate displacement in many cases”  (Garcia 2). YIMBYs belief in developers and the free market makes them believe that housing is a commodity that is controlled by supply and demand controls.
YIMBYs are incorrect in their reliance on market-based policies in supply and demand in order to reduce and control housing costs. This is because YIMBYs fail to realize that developers are attempting to make profit off of the development that they build. Leading to affordable housing being an afterthought for many developers in a more inclusionary zoning city, which YIMBYs support. NIMBYs however, with their support for CBAs and local controlled systems are able to adequately represent the citizens of the city through their more democratic and people-oriented system. Whereas, YIMBY ideology is heavily reliant on developers' will to cater towards low income individuals and rather YIMBY ideology relies on the current market systems working in favor of low income individuals. Altogether YIMBY ideology is not a viable solution to the affordable housing crisis, rather,  a locally controlled, zoning plan with strict regulations, something that NIMBYs support is necessary in order to solve the housing crisis that exists throughout the world as well as to create more affordable housing for low income individuals.

Worthiness of The Laramie Project.
The film The Laramie Project directed by Moises Kaufman, is a compelling film of a group of individual from a theatre group come together in Laramie, Wyoming to interview and document the citizens of the town of Laramie for two years after a historic hate crime against a gay individual occurred within in the town. The theatre group records countless interviews as well as input from the community on the killing of Matthew Shepard. The Laramie Project would be an excellent choice at the Museum of Tolerance’s seminar of the origins of hate because it allows for more discussion on the founding principles of society and their community and why hate crimes occur within them. 
The film displays that tolerance towards differences is just not taught within many parts of the community through its juxtaposition of many different figures throughout the community. 
Kaufman utilises a vast amount of juxtaposition in the scene with the woman who was complaining about no one talking about a individual in the highway patrol dying, the priest who said that even words are discrimination, and the reverend who hoped that Matthew reevaluated his lifestyle while he was still conscious as well as the gay man watching the parade from his building with hope of a better future (Day 2, Segment 4). Highlights the disunity as well as the different factions within communities. The words of the priest and the gay man are teeming with hope and optimism as well as love for human beings whereas the words of the reverend and the woman are full of hatred and condescension. Each of these individuals are reminiscent of spokespeople through their powerful words and strong opinions; they are each spokespeople for their own factions of the community as a whole. Through this they are able to spread their beliefs and ideals to their own factions. Through this, each of these factions are fed the same beliefs and ideals as their spokespeople, leading to disunity and rifts within the community as a whole. These factions take in the information fed to them by their spokesperson therefore, leading to many parts of the community not getting access to information that is available to other factions. 
	Kaufman uses both diction as well as an appeal to an authority in order to display how tolerance at its core is not a suitable goal to promote peace and safety for all members of a community. President Clinton, the president of one of the most powerful countries on earth uses his authority to talk about how Americans should do what they can to “reduce their own fear and anxiety and anger at people that are different” with a group of people singing somberly in the background (Day 2, Segment 1). President Clinton is trying to bolster peoples tolerance of other groups through his powerful, emotionally connotative words like “reduce”, “fear”, “anger” at “people that are different” displays that Clinton wants people to reduce their emotional connotation towards different groups of people and wants the people to treat others as human beings. Clinton is using his authority to try and change the behaviour of the populous. Through the somber music playing in the background which create a large amount of grief within the reader underscore the fact that President Clinton's words have very little effect on society due to the fact that not everyone will want to become more tolerant just because the president leads to a large amount of disconnect in the tolerance that the populous has towards others. Kaufman through this is trying to underscore how tolerance of differences does not go far enough to end violence that is occurring against many minorities in society.
	Kaufman uses emotional reactions in order to explain how one individual can contribute to a culture of violence in a community. The homosexual farmer living in Laramie at the very end of the film while sitting down in an open pasture expresses his thoughts on the entire Matthew Shepard killing which was that people at the end of the day got what they wanted however in reality no real change took place, no laws or bills were passed. (Day 3, Segment 1). The farmer  sitting down and talking with a clear, direct voice leads to the reader trusting the farmer's words. With these words which the reader now trusts fully the farmer diffuses his viewpoint on the Matthew shepard killing which was that nothing lasting came out of it. The farmer through this suggests that what most people are doing which is a pure emotional, justice-first response is not enough to solve widespread, systemic hate crime issues rather, actual laws and bills are. People in the community are leading to a continuation of hate crimes similar to Matthew Shepard's killing due to their fully emotional response rather than asking for real tangible solutions. The Laramie Project through this leads to people questioning if their responses to hate crimes are adequate enough for real change to occur within a community and if their lack of response leads to more hate crimes occurring. 
	The Laramie Project is highly relevant today still due to the fact that in the last years we have seen an uptick in the number of hate crimes that have occurred in the world in the state of Manipur in East India there has been a large amount of religious violence because one party of the state’s political chamber doesn’t want to pass any laws regarding religion whereas the other party wants to make sure that there are laws to make sure that all religions are treated the same. This has led to many large scale riots and religion based killings in Manipur and international condemnation towards the party that refuses to change the system as well as to the Prime Minister Modi who refuses to recognize that it is happening. The Laramie Project helps individuals view the importance of having real laws that protect all people.

A Connection to Culture
Wikipedia, a digital encyclopedia that is communally edited and owned, is one of my favorite sites. Wikipedia is a site that I can log in to once at 3 p.m. and be on it for hours, looking up the most random information like the band The Japanese House to Indian Politics. And that's what I happened to be doing on my birthday. I was looking up facts on Wikipedia about Indian Prime Ministers and I was forming some opinions that would be controversial to say in India like Manmohan Singh started all of the programs that Narendra Modi is claiming he did.
 Later that same day, because it was my birthday, my parents tried to convince me to go out to eat, despite my objections. We ended up going to what I think is the best Indian restaurant in the Austin Area, Bayleaf. Bayleaf is a traditional Punjabi restaurant in Austin and it is one of the few Indian restaurants that actually uses real spices and flavors instead of things like ketchup or food coloring. This makes the food spicy but also tastes so good at the same time.
When me and my family sat down at a booth within the restaurant we were overwhelmed with the intoxicating smell of spices in the air. The restaurant didn’t bother with fancy Indian decorations like Krishna or Ganapathi idols on the walls or banana leaves on the plates. Instead, the restaurant focused its full energy on the food and not on the decorations. The restaurant was very boring from the inside, to be honest, it had plain, neon-colored walls and small TVs in two of the dark corners playing popular Bollywood music at a low volume. This setup reminded me greatly of a restaurant that I had been to in Mumbai, everything from the decorations of Bayleaf to the tiled floors of the restaurant greatly reminded me of this very authentic restaurant in Mumbai. Bayleaf was able to channel the Punjabi culture, not through having an overwhelming amount of traditional decorations on the wall but by being true to the food.
When my family and I sat down I decided was really tired of eating basic, barely even Indian dishes, like Butter Chicken or Chicken Tikka Masala so I scavenged the menu thoroughly looking for a reasonably good dish and I finally landed upon the Chicken Do Pyaza, a Mughlai dish with roots going all the way back to ancient times in Persia. This dish was rich in history and flavor. When the food arrived at the table I took a bite of the chicken with one piece of the butter naan and I was surprised by the sourness and the creaminess of the dish which slowly turned into a slightly spicy aftertaste. This dish was really interesting to me as it used a more north indian creamy spice palette which you don’t get as much of in the Austin metropolitan area.
The flavors and texture of the dish reminded me about my life when I lived in Chicago, these North Indian flavors were a lot more prevalent there. I remembered going over to friends' houses who mostly spoke Hindi or Marathi almost every month and having this really authentic North Indian food at their houses and their recipes were passed down over hundreds of years in their families. These recipes were cooked before the British Raj ever existed. These recipes have created their own life, they have created happiness and fostered imagination for millions of people in North India when they were under colonial rule and religious taxes under the Mughal dynasty.  The recipe did the same thing to me. I remembered so many different pivotal moments of my early life and childhood, the issues that I faced. The flavors, combined with my excessive amounts of research on Wikipedia reminded me of the journey of millions in India. 
As I ate this dish I was reminded of my own Maratha culture.This dish was eaten by many pivotal people in the history of India, like Bhagat Singh and Jawaharlal Nehru and it helped propel them to do the things that they did which eventually benefited society as we understand it even under a heavily western and globalized viewpoint. This dish is one of the few constants between important Indian historical figures and it has indirectly built up the people who built up the country that now is hosting the G20 and is considered to be more powerful than the country that stole twenty trillion dollars from India. Chicken Do Pyaza is one of the few dishes in the world that can connect me, a 16 year old high schooler, to the very people that built up one of the largest countries in the world. 






